# Tensile-strength-testing-device-for-thin-films
A low-cost Universal Testing Machine (UTM) for material characterization through tensile testing. Uses a stepper motor and load cell to measure force and displacement, with a Python Tkinter GUI for control and real-time stress-strain visualization. Supports speeds of 1.0-8.0 mm/min and a max load of 50N. Ideal for research and education.

Universal testing machines are tools that provide mathematical models that allow the study of the strength of materials, giving fundamental information for the mechanical characterization of materials, by obtaining physical and mechanical properties that are the basis for the sizing of any system or mechanical element. The basis of these destructive mechanical studies are tensile tests, which are the primary tool for studying the behavior of the material. In the present work, the design and construction of a low-cost, low-scale universal testing machine was carried out, and tensile experimental tests on nano fiber mats were conducted. The tensile testing machine consists of a stepper motor as an actuator, a load-cell, a load-cell amplifier, a data acquisition system and the 3D printed machine frame. The detected load-cell signal is amplified by the HX711 amplifier and is sent to the data acquisition (DAQ) system. The DAQ system with Python based Tkinter GUI software receives the signals from the load-cell and displacement from motor rotations, then plots the real-time stress-strain curve. Using this testing machine, it is possible to conduct tensile tests on miniature tensile specimens (thin films) at speeds of 1.0-8.0 mm/min. The maximum load it supports is 50 N, with a stroke range of 0 to 400 mm. Testing results in force and displacement with a deviation of ±2.5% of the real values can be measured. From the results obtained, it can be concluded that the machine developed in this work can be used to perform tensile tests on nano fiber mats with reliable results. The approximate cost of the constructed UTM is 100 US dollars.

"Universal Tensile Testing Machine VERSION TWO" is available under a Creative Commons CC BY-NC-SA 4.0 license from Instructables at https://www.instructables.com/Universal-Tensile-Testing-Machine-VERSION-TWO/. For details of the license, see https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/. Modifications made by [LakshanHDR].
